# DashAR: An Augmented Reality-based Heads Up Display for Automobiles

## Abstract

The concept of the Heads Up Display (HUD) has undergone many evolutionary changes in its 100+ year history. In the early 20th century, it originated as a primitive application for military weaponry and aircraft, in the form of reflector sights. Furthermore, into the latter half of the 20th century, HUDs evolved into electronic, sophisticated information hubs for fighter jets, increasing the overall verbosity of the information it provides the operator. By the 1980s, the concept evolved into a format available to everyday consumers, in the form of HUDs for automobiles. Since then, Automotive HUDs have seen little evolutionary growth. They have consistently been limited to the dashboard and windshield of the automobile, directly adjacent to the operator. In fact, most automobile manufacturers have not adopted HUDs in their products. Some companies have produced solutions that retrofit a HUD into these types of automobiles. However, they have remained limited to the automobile's dashboard, presenting a fixed set of information in near real-time.

In this paper, a new solution to Automotive HUDs is explored, which modernizes the approach using Extended Reality (XR) technology. Recent developments in XR have resulted in a moderately low cost, lightweight, Augmented Reality (AR)-based appliance, readily available for general purpose use. This appliance, when programmed with bespoke AR-centric software, and paired with an aggregation device collecting data from relevant sources (OBDII data, third-party APIs, etc.), results in a wearable, dynamic HUD, presenting near real-time information to the user. Given the highly dynamic nature of this implementation, the user can prioritize the information presented to them, ranging from automobile functional data (e.g. speedometer, tachometer, fuel level gauge, etc.) to operational data (e.g. navigation, weather conditions, etc.)
